you got
it okay it is now
7:04 and we will call
tonight's um Board of finance budget
Workshop to order at that time um we're
going to start with the pledge
allegiance so I pledge allegiance to the
flag flag of the United States of
America and to the Republic which it
stands stands one
indivisible and justice for
all thank you everybody as we know we
are going to you know discuss the budget
tonight um Kim just said she was going
to be joining so I think she'll be
coming on
soon so Eric do you want to go ahead and
um we'll move to agenda item two which
is public speak do you mind doing that
is that how that goes yep uh so of the
members at large the only one present
seems to be Linda fish Linda fish I'm
all set and CR too right yeah and Wy do
you want to say anything other than
discuss the discussion of the Fire
Commission budget which will be at its
agenda item no I'll wait for that okay
that's public speak
may I speak an cre is here Eric oh sorry
my apologies wrong board board
meeting sorry I'm here as the public a
member of the public not representing
the board of
Selectmen um I've been thinking about
how does each expense in the budget
benefit the town and the residents of
Andover thinking about it more I know
that the board of selectman presented
the budget to you a few weeks back but I
still I've changed my mind on a few
things I just want to state that um
number one I feel that a part-time
community and Senior Center Director
might be better than the full-time if we
make the position full-time the director
would be tasked with many roles
currently filled by volunteers and could
be continuing that way can we really
afford paying the fulltime for that uh
two does the purchase of a new roadside
mower make sense I know that
probably not next year's budget but um
other things to do with equipment I
think we could spend less if we were
repairing and or renting equipment
that's used
infrequently after researching expenses
more since that meeting of for the
selectman I would if I had the chance to
change my vote to no for the purchase of
the new roadside
Mower and three I do continue to support
our town planner this is an excellent
example of Forward Thinking which will
benefit our town in the future so that's
just some of my thoughts on the budget I
know that you're down to doing the fire
department today but I just wanted to
get a chance to say my part thank you
thank you an sorry for leaving you out
my
apologies we appreciate your
comments um Eric I know it's not on the
agenda but should I call to wall now and
ask him or uh W he is on the agenda it's
item a fire department
budget oh because we added it sorry did
I miss that okay not on my budget it's
not it's not on my agenda I printed it
so I could follow it so no got it off
the
website I email to me from Kate so maybe
I maybe I printed it doesn't matter
we're glad he's here we wanted to
discuss the budget with him Wally thank
you so much for taking the time to join
us we I Eric said that he had got Eric
did you say you got the budget the
breakdown the spreadsheet emailed to you
today I did I did and I passed it off to
you but I passed it off very late
because I yeah and thank you for that I
mean we'll take a look tomorrow I was
hoping to have some questions you know
for w-e so um in my preparation but what
we can do um
is
maybe so what I'd like to do has it
always been presented as a oneline item
in the budget
Eric yes okay the Fire Commission budget
is a single line item typically yeah so
we know that it was kind of a
significant you know ask this year a
raise we understand you know different
things are happening so we appreciate
you coming on maybe Wally and explaining
it should are you able to share that
with us now ER and we'll all take a look
together and can and I'm admitting Kim
now so I will share my screen and bring
that up on the screen okay she was
having difficulty that's what she
was okay so you should be seeing it now
hopefully yep we're don't mind me make
it a little
bigger perfect thank you for my eyesight
so if we all just take a quick minute
and look it over and then if anyone has
specific questions for
Wall-E um we can open the floor to do
that
Eric while everybody's reading it and in
Wally as well I'm seeing that big
increase for the firefighting supplies
with the
gear
um I don't know you know it's hard 47%
increase I don't know how much of the
dollar amount that is would Wally Wally
I got that in front of me um I thought I
sent Eric the other paperwork with the
actual numbers yeah but I can get that
to him tomorrow I'm almost certain I
send it to him back in the fall
but uh protective
clothing yeah firefighting supplies is
the one I think you were talking
about yes yeah we increased that by
$6,400
basically everything that we buy for the
fire department has gone up 10 15 20% in
the past three
years and there's a lead time on
everything that we buy POS is gone up
turnout gear has gone up the services
that we need to have done annually
they've gone up and the other thing with
any service that's done at the firehouse
we're being charged a fuel cost for
anybody to come out and do the
work so basically we're looking for a 9%
total total increase in the budget or a
dollar amount of
$14,400 and that's primarily due to
inflation that everything has gone up
electricity is scheduled to go up again
propane's gone up gas and Diesel's gone
up and anything that we buy basically
has gone up in in
price now we appreciate you explaining
that we didn't have the dollar amount of
what the percentage would be um and
we'll take a look at it I don't know if
anyone has
and and forgive me I'm going to sound
really naive with this just because
you're here and because I'm
interested how many like I know this is
a Fire Commission we have a fire
commissioner and we have a whole team of
volunteers that protects our town
correct
so is does this have to do with the
number of people of volunteers too I
know this is equipment like the hoses
and things like that but
um training new firefighters taking
certificate classes
additional right I mean understanding
and Eric had talked about it's it's not
you know in the future maybe we won't
have as many volunteers as you know we
have and it's not something that how how
many volunteers do you have now Wally
just so I have an idea it's
approximately 35 people that are active
right
now and you talk about having less in
the future that's something you've got
to think about long and hard because
somewhere down the road you're probably
going to have to hire paid
Personnel for the daytime coverage a
number of towns around us have gone to
that we're not in that position yet but
it's something that may be coming down
the road okay
so I mean I'm happy to hear that there's
35 that give their service to the town
and and I understand I just didn't know
I mean I see the nice Firehouse there
and I'm glad that Andover has that I
just didn't understand the whole
workings of it and while you were here I
mean I hope we keep having volunteers
and so there are there active people in
there during the day like are there
people at that Firehouse during the day
no everything is 100% volunteer but we
do have person in the daytime not as
many as we have at night right but we do
have Personnel to respond during the day
okay so they're pretty much all on call
if something happens emergencies happen
um that's right and I apologize if all
of you know this it's fascinating to me
so we might as well get a tiny little
lesson while we're at it so I'll never
while here could could um W could you
explain what's driving the need uh you
said in the future there will be
full-time paid person
what's driving the the need for that
basically everybody in the country is
having trouble getting people to
volunteer their time oh we've got some
young people that have come along in the
past couple years they're the ones
willing to go take the certification
training and luckily they're the ones
willing to come out and take the placees
some of the older ones but everybody is
having recruitment issues
and especially for daytime
coverage and Hein is a prime example
they've had to go to uh two shifts of
coverage to be able to get their
ambulance out the door for the majority
of the time we can get the apparatus out
day or night but it does look down the
road like there'll be a time that we'll
have to hire people to man that
ambulance
I see thank
you and that that is something that's a
really common point of discussion among
Town managers and administrators um it's
something that's been discussed both
through Council of small towns as well
as Connecticut conference and
municipalities um most towns are ending
up having to go to either fully paid or
part volunteer part paid um and there's
a lot of growing pains with that um the
biggest issue has typically been
Staffing the ambulance not necessarily
Staffing fire
response um but you know what 50 years
ago was a three-year waiting list to
even get in to join the the volunteer
fire department here now now it's a
struggle and and there was a meeting
last Sunday between the board of
Selectmen and the fire you know the uh
uh the fire chief um and the officers to
discuss you know what recruiting they
can do to increase the number of
membership because the reality is very
few people have the time to volunteer
and getting out of bed at 2 o'clock in
the morning to rescue some leaky person
on Route Six who just wrecked his car
and haul him into Harford hospital
that's a tough sell for most people so
it is a problem um it's a problem most
towns face centry is a professional fire
department now an
ambulance um you know uh Hein definitely
is um I believe Bolton is starting to go
to paid staff during the daytime so this
is this is happening everywhere um you
know we're not alone we're in the very
fortunate position that we've been able
to maintain an all vol volunteer Force
as long as we have um the other thing to
keep in mind is the expenses here do not
include the expenses for a lot of the
ambulance related stuff because like
most ambulance departments we bill for
those
Services um and we pay for the new
ambulance and a lot of the equipment
from that um so what you're seeing what
the town actually spends
on the entire fire department is
basically the same cost as one resident
State troop room that's not including
the the cost for Capital items though
which is also you know uh expensive Eric
is this something that in your town
manager meetings would it be and I know
that in emergencies getting there the
fastest to save lives and all that kind
of thing is the most important but has
there been talk of regionalization with
some of these towns
is that even a thing I don't is it so so
we basically are already regionalized
and Wally can talk about that because
the towns are all part of a essentially
a network um of mutual Aid so we support
other towns other towns support us good
um no one town has enough
firefighting uh personnel and gear to
handle a large incident or accident um
or for instance you had two ambulance
calls at the same time in town because
we only have one ambulance one crew so
we already do support each other um yeah
thank you Wally How would how how many
calls do you think there are on average
to a week I mean I know that's probably
hard to it's a hard thing to say we're
averaging over 350 calls in a year okay
majority of those calls are ambulance
calls right and back to what Eric talked
about we have a strong Mutual Aid
agreement with the surrounding towns and
Talon County so that there are resources
available to us if our ambulance is out
or out of service for
servicing Colombia or Hein or centry can
respond to end over and again under
mutual Aid we respond out of town to
other towns so we all work together
under the Talon County Mutual Aid System
to help each other so it isn't that it's
a dire thing that if someone's not
available you won't get service it's
just that it'll be coming from another
town and another question since we're
talking about volunteerism and just
because I'm curious and then my
questions are probably done do we do the
volunteers get any I thought ER are
there any perks do they get anything
from the town for their volunteer time
or service was
there tax break somewhere did I hear
that am I making that up no you're not
there is a
stipend um a essentially a tax abatement
that are given to Firefighters depending
and it depends on two things one they
have to respond to a per a high enough
percentage of the calls during that year
to qualify Okay so if you're not going
to you know if your pager rings and
you're turning it off and you're not
going you know you're not getting the
stien and the stipend is based on years
of service um in qualification level
thank you so there's yeah you have to
there's steps to it right or whatever
okay correct but currently the maximum
you can get is basically a $11,000 tax
break okay I earned that by putting in
31 years of active service in the fire
department before I retired so I'm one
of those did thank you for all those
years of service as a volunteer no I get
it and he just told us the maximum is a
thousand a year so that's not a heck of
block' be my no and that is something
that's going to be actively a
consideration by the board of Selectmen
right um it would take a town ordinance
to change m but the the state allows a
much higher rebate to that and while I
don't think it's necessarily going to
help with
recruiting I do think it might help a
little bit with retention raining
although I I honestly don't know most
people join because they want to serve
not because they're getting a grand back
a year you know for going to 40 uh calls
a year no but I'm glad they're getting
something so no I hear you something to
think about future it seems like you
know it's it's kind of the one lever we
have
though yeah you know whether it works or
not we'll see but if that's the if
that's the one but button we can press
absolutely try and push off this issue
then you know okay
yeah does anyone else go ahead Kim yeah
um Wally the fundraisers that you do in
the uh fire department do they have a
good can you hear me yeah yes we can
oh um do they have a good um advantage
to your budget do they take care of
quite a bit of the budget and is the
fundraisers they use for things like
buying
uniforms and events that they hold for
the fire department they have a
Christmas party every year for the
members and their families again it's
another thank you that was done by the
fire department Association and these
are where a lot of those funds are
used they do at times purchase equipment
with money that they raise and that
equipment is then donated to the town to
go on the town's Capital so there are
items that they are purchasing
throughout the year that do benefit the
town but they don't have a big impact on
the budget per se okay thank
you and can I ask is Eric Ron or or
Wally Ron Mike is he who is he in the
town what is his title Ron Mike is the
fire chief thank you that's what I
thought I didn't want to he's the head
of the volunteer fire department and he
is in command when they do to an
emergency
response okay and he's a non-paid person
or does he that's correct and he also
lives in the town of Columbia just over
the Town Line so he does not receive the
tax break that active members do wow
that's something else that may be
addressed in the future by the
selectman no it's good to know all this
information so that those of us on the
board can absorb it maybe others knew it
I didn't know all this so thank you for
explaining how it all goes yep I don't
have any further other questions um I
don't know if anybody else on the board
has more questions for Wall-E I would
only um and I don't know if this is
something that can be done but going
forward you know as as a as a oneline
item for the fire department it's it's
nice to see this information that we
have in front of us but it would also be
nice to see it in actual budget format
where we can see you know a year or two
of history of what the cost have been
what we spent this year and what we are
budgeting for next year it just helps us
really look at these line items and and
make a better decision
overall
um the breakdown for this year Bill and
uh I'll send it to Eric so he can pass
it on to you people that's awesome thank
you very much thanks Wally doing that we
build it into our spreadsheet the way we
build in the other department budgets
and it'll help us see Trends
yeah obviously this trend is up but
yeah well it's a good thing that we have
that much new training that's needed so
that's that's a great that's a great is
good I'm not surprised that turnout gear
is high on the list here um you know as
one of the big things that they need so
yeah and the the thing to keep in mind
too is
that pretty much everything used for
fire
departments you know is regulated by
NFPA um which is the National Fire
Protection Association so like
everything has built in age limits like
you're allowed to use turnout gear for X
number of years you know so they
basically they're building in a
replacement schedule where they're
replacing one tenth of their turnout
gear every year essentially so even
though collectively you know they
have I I actually have a spreadsheet on
that somewhere from from Ronnie about
how much actual gear they have but the
answer is that they basically turn over
one tenth of that gear every year um
other things like poses um those are
required to be tested either annually or
semiannually Wally you can correct
annual testing in a 20year life
expectancy after which they are no
longer tested and must be replaced right
so so we' had sorry no I was gonna say
we we've had years where we've had to
replace a lot of hoes and we've had
years where we've had to replace less
hes you know they lay everything out and
they pressure test them and if they fail
you have no choice you have to replace
them so understood that's that's a good
point I guess so seeing like Bill
suggested and all of us would like just
the trends because maybe certain years
certain things get increase certain
don't you know and we'll be able to see
that okay just like in public works all
right now this is the time for
that but that's awesome Wally thank you
again for joining us tonight and for
going over this um all right now we'll
get that other uh document to Eric
tomorrow okay thank you yeah sounds
good um so now I'm gonna move down to we
didn't add anything else right Eric that
I'm not it was just the fire I don't
want to skip so the next agenda item
that we're going to touch on tonight and
Kim just because you joined us a little
bit late um well we we're going to start
on budget Workshop you know number three
with any points but what I asked Eric is
if he could be the person kind of
controlling the screen because I want to
I'm not going to be updating things as
we go I'm going to be jotting them in my
green notebook because I just have notes
there I'll up the spreadsheet if there
are any updates and then you know do it
that way okay sounds good so I I thought
how we can handle this I know that last
week I spoke at the end of the meeting
um we had gone over every single line
item we've all made a few adjustments
here and there um gotten information on
different things that could be
increasing and um Eric I know you said
that all right so I'll finish that
thought so I thought tonight if any of
us had any items which I will be
proposing a few that I want to bring to
the table we could all speak our peace
we understand that you know we're going
to say things we're going to make
motions we're going to talk about it um
but I want to be so we're going to open
the table to that one of the items that
an CR talked on tonight and that maybe
we'll start there is I'd like to get
everyone's thoughts if they've had time
to think about that um Community Center
Director too
um I you know I've had some thoughts
myself uh so could we go to that part
Eric if you don't mind I I'm not going
to follow along I hope you guys can deal
with me just going to the important
items
um I'm gonna shut my camera so look
really close at the screen my eyes are
not good with this stuff and I'm far
away
it G have to like I thought you did okay
sorry well find search will get us there
if we need
to yeah I I think it's towards the top
right because I went back when I was
looking I have it open too in separate
format I should be able to find
it like it's more towards the top
because I had to kind of jot down a few
of the things that I was going to bring
up and
then I don't have to do all my net first
right there right there Town planner no
I'm sorry mind that's different yep yeah
never mind and maybe I there we go
Community there it is's the whole 6,000
there it is yep I remember that remember
so I know that when we were discussing
that we all had varying opinions and you
know well noted and made some good
points after thinking about this and
like an CR I know that this is going to
be a new
position I'm
um you know I I hope that eventually it
can lead
into you know the big position we hope
it's going to be and take over
things I I'm leaning in I definitely
don't think the salary should remain
where the salary is I I mean that's
going to be everybody's thought on that
I think this is more in the
range if we're going to keep it full
time you know and I did some math today
let me find my page on
this I'm afraid if we get it in as a
full-time full-time right away I don't
know if there's enough to keep it busy
if we do put it in as a a full-time
person let me just find my notes
I would support it as a full-time
position at the tone of starting at
50,000 if we're talking about you know
30 to5 to 40 hours a week coming in
working with all the different
commissions
departments setting things up taking a
lot of things off the plate of some of
the people that are doing it now it's I
so I have that one thought we could do
that and then
or I've had members of the community
talk to me of course they do um and I
appreciate that are we biting off too
much too soon with putting a full-time
person in there getting a nice part-time
person in there doing the learning and
growing um you know setting figuring out
the salary based on an hourly rate that
we thought was O you know
going to do the job it was pointed out
to me that if we get it in get a person
in and then we're married to full-time
it's hard to scale back rather than
starting slower and building up so I
don't want to go on and on I'll look
back at my notes um anyone have thoughts
on that does anyone feel strong about
keeping it fulltime or or anything of
what I've just
mentioned um so this was the board of
selectman's proposal right and you know
not withstanding Ann obviously just
indicated that you know she thinks
otherwise but um given that we I think
it's a tough call because we don't we're
we're sort of throwing darts at a board
here we don't have this position in
existence right now this is all brand
new we have no track record to look at
so I was inclined to defer to the board
of Selectmen that's my just start
position and it strikes me as something
that
if we get push back on the budget at
budget um at our our budget meeting with
the town you know that that's a place we
could we could look at but for now I was
going to be okay with leaving it that's
my take okay thank you Rob I would I
would Echo oh sorry can
I oh go ahead Bill yes go ahead Bill
sorry I'm not used to I also have a
concern with that $60,000 I I voiced it
last week as well I think we are jumping
in pretty heavy with a $60,000 salary
for and this is where some of my
thoughts come from so you guys will
understand and if I get the the person
title wrong is it the treasurer that
Eric you have to help me out here that
helps you with with the budget and the
finances and getting the audits all
straight the audits all straightened out
is that yes what position is that
treasure treasure okay it seems like
we're struggling there we have a woman
that's that's doing the job for us that
doesn't really want do it and I look at
you know $660,000 and your note there or
whoever's note that is high enough to
coach an experienced person from another
town I would like to do that with the
treasurer's position I feel that the
treasurer is a far and I'm sorry I'm not
trying to offend anybody a far more
important in my mind person than you
know wreck and scheduling and it's just
like we've had to dig oursel out of a
deep hole over many years with with
Audits and and I think back to some past
people that ran this town that got us
like $780,000 in debt and I just
feel that Financial is far more
important and we should be trying to
poach a whether it's fulltime or
part-time but a a high quality with
enough money to get a person that wants
to do the job right that our money be
better spent there than in this wreck
Community Center position so I and not
saying it's not important I just think
that you know and I voiced my opinion
about Carol Lee last week you know she's
constantly been I don't know how long
she's been with us but thinks she's
underpaid and here's a new position is
to come in and right off the bat make
more money than her and I I view a town
clerk as a more important position than
a community center wck Department Center
so I'm not trying to knock the community
center I just think there are people
that are more important to how this town
is
run than Community Center rec department
Center and I think we should be putting
more money into trying to find a
full-time or part-time whatever is
needed high quality Treasurer and that's
why I would want to see more money put
personally so I'm in favor of cutting
this back whether it's to less money to
start with or part-time to start with
but I have a problem with
$60,000 out of the gate so I'll shut up
there and
go ahead Ken I would tend to agree with
what Joanne said and potentially even
reduce the position to
45,000 to start and take a look at it
and bill I completely agree with what
you're saying um with the finance
positions but for this particular
position I think 60,000 is high to
start thank you Kim and Bill you you did
get my thoughts going sorry are you done
are you all set Kim I am yeah okay you
know and we can look at the math either
way um like like we've all said I'm not
opposed to if it is going to be a
full-time person because Eric's afraid
we might thank you I'm I'm glad you both
have those thoughts I want to piggyback
on what Bill said just because we talked
about it I feel like Bill I'm glad that
they T and we don't need to go up there
but the treasurer were increasing quite
a bit based on Cheryl's you know
decision and getting she knows I trust
her immensely I've talked to her a few
times like you said she straightened out
our situation she's got the assistant
Treasurer in there that's doing a great
job um from what everyone says you know
and I like her as a person so she she
gave Eric this I think it's a
$30,000 increase so that's one of my did
Cheryl because Cheryl feels confident
bill so I listen to her that she has an
idea of what our town needs to maintain
you know a $30,000
salary um and I did the math so that's
and I'm not picking I just like to know
figures because we don't always she had
a certain number of hours that she
thought should be committed to the town
so that she could come in review
everything keep it going she's you know
one of her charges was making that
instructional binder of how to do things
um she worked intensely Eric knows with
the auditor um we did have a meeting the
other night well we can briefly touch on
that um for things going forward if we
can we'll find out from Eric not like a
lot just that um getting that binder
together so that we know what to do when
we hire a new treasur and what has to be
done and what the assistant Treasurer
has to do Eric what I was you know so
this works out to you know a $30,000 a
year out of 52 weeks a year is 57 $76
per week just say did Cheryl think that
it was about 10 hours per week needs to
be devoted in the town to keep it
running smoothly I just if we're going
to approve that bump and we already did
and we all think she's worth it and we
think it's a very important position so
we're paying Cheryl flat rate of $150 an
hour to work for the okay okay so thank
you for the accounting world so I'm just
saying but she definitely has you know
she's been at our meetings I just don't
recall and she you know I can even ask
her but is there you know because we
want to make sure we're getting the next
person that comes in Cheryl's an expert
at it but did she say about how many
hours a week because I feel like she's
devoting about five hours a week to us
now but maybe I'm
wrong uh I would say on average probably
less than that I mean honestly Cheryl
looked at the budget for the first time
this year a couple of days ago right um
the way the system is now I do all the
budgeting for the year um she gets us
through the audit um supports Christine
or Chris a little
bit
um you know we are running with very
minimal financial support in this town
in terms of the treasure position
and I feel like just sorry goe say so
Eric could you just tell us a little bit
more of your thoughts like what would
you like to see in that position and and
if if you were to take a guess at it
like what is
needed first of all the the real problem
is that there's a giant shortage of
Municipal Finance officers so all the
towns are poaching from each other um
probably the closest in equivalency to
Andover would be Colombia I mean they're
somewhat bigger than us but not hugely
bigger than us um their finance officer
I think makes around 130,000 a year
something like that that's on the real
low end I mean you know you could expect
a bigger Town's going to be paying in
the 160s today like a centry i and Eric
we we know that as far as big but Cheryl
had
specific you know she knows what has to
be done in the office and I don't mean
to interrupt obviously we're not going
to get a full-time person like that
Cheryl has even said to me there's not a
need because she's like the executive
person at the top overseeing all the
little I consider myself a worker be all
that worker be work that Chris is doing
all the time and doing a great job at it
you know sure yeah so so in your opinion
though Eric I mean I'm just trying to
get a
feel again we need to ask Cheryl I think
because Cheryl well I'm asking Eric
though because I have him on the phone
right now so I would love to hear what
Eric has to say okay what in your
opinion do you think is needed honestly
my Approach has always been to go after
a part-time
employee um somebody that is an
experienced Municipal Finance
director um you know we are I am still
having kind of low-level conversations
with one of the neighboring towns about
potentially hiring One Finance director
to cover Two
Towns um the problem is we're on
QuickBooks and there is no since there's
only a few towns in the state that runs
QuickBooks you know while it's it's very
easy to find a business oriented CPA
that's very conversent with QuickBooks
it's more difficult to
find you know somebody on the municipal
end willing to deal with that so I mean
really what we're looking at is either
trying to hire a retired person that
just wants a part-time job and wants to
run a little town from the treasure
perspective um or we're looking at you
know somebody who's running a big town
and willing to take Andover on on the
side I mean those are really because we
are not going to Pony up there's no way
we're going to Pony up what it takes to
get a competent person and every time
we've tried to lowball this position
which is what's happened three times in
a row before Cheryl um we ended up with
a lot more problems than we solve um
because the reality is if you're going
to pay you know your top Finance person
60 Grand a year um you know as a
full-time position which is what we had
at one time you're not really hiring a
good candidate um you know you're taking
the first person you can find that's
willing to take it for that salary so
and you're right we we absolutely do not
need a full-time person um would I like
more support than I have now
absolutely um would I like somebody else
doing the budgeting yeah
absolutely um should the finance
director Beyond every Board of Finance
meeting absolutely and not me um you
know that's their job um that's not
really the town's administrator's job I
just do it because I don't have that
support um and you need somebody at
these meetings so that's my take on
it thank you Eric y thank you Eric and I
only I put input my two cents because
I've attended a lot of meetings where
I've heard different people give you
know the EXP the auditor and maybe an
accounting person give their opinions
too so I get it we'd all love to have a
full-time everyone but I'm glad that I
agree with Bill we just have to have a
really good person in there um you know
I want to swing positive a little
hopefully we can find someone Eric you
know you never know who's out there that
could be a retired person and sure you
know Cheryl came on board and did a
great job and she gave us since she did
such a great job and put it all together
I do respect her opinion on what's
needed so I have no problem with raising
that I don't know how long she's going
to be around um okay so thank you for
that anybody else want to weigh in on oh
go ahead well I'll let somebody else
talk and I'll come
back does anybody El have an
opinion on
that I can't see you go ahead B I think
they're good well I guess I mean I I
think get I don't know if we can go to
that line item also but what is in place
for that position right now for next
year has there been an increase proposed
for next year is it going to be enough
to get a qualified person for the number
of hours that we need again I'm just
trying to do the right thing for the
town and I see that position as
something uh that needs more attention
in my opinion than a community center so
I I just love to know what we're
proposing for next year and how we're
going to address the problems that we've
been having uh with keeping a qualified
person and Eric I I think I I think
you've said in the past that she doesn't
really want to do this anymore so if
that's true how are we going to find the
person that we need if we're not putting
enough money in the budget for that
position so is that true she doesn't
really really want to work anymore she's
doing us a favor is that kind of
position that's why she she upped it so
much and she's hanging on for us for
right now I mean obviously Eric will
answer but she
significantly increased it based on what
she thought the needs of the Town were
but okay so it went from 15 to 30 then
is what you're saying then well I mean
in the part like you just heard Eric she
only is seeing the books like less than
I I knew at the beginning it was maybe a
five hours a week or maybe it's five
hours a month she really she has that's
why I just think she should speak to us
I know she's going to be just to really
like especially since you brought it up
tonight Bill maybe we can have her on
the next meeting um lay in the low you
know before we make our final decisions
if she's going to say we're a town that
needs someone a lot more than her you
know and she'll she'll let us know and
then you'll hear it right from her mouth
yeah but I mean you listen to what Eric
just said I mean he's doing the job the
treasurer by being on all these calls
and doing all these budgets it'd be nice
if there was an actual fincial person
that was
no yeah 100 no knock to Eric I'm just
saying if we actually had someone who's
you know uh
training was to do this or to be on
these calls and to be helping us through
these budgets and and taking some of
this off of Eric and putting it on a
person that's actually you know I don't
I don't want qualified but someone that
should be doing this no I mean and I
think it's the way that sorry Ken just
one last thing because I have gone to
all the things in the past and I hear it
from all the different meetings they've
arranged Our Town manager in a different
way than I ever would you know as
someone that works in HR so I couldn't
agree with you more I think Eric does a
and it's not up to me I'm just a
volunteer here I mean I you know we all
have things we could do with our time so
but I did take the time to listen to
meetings and I mean I think that's why
they got the Public Works manager in my
opinion I thought Eric should have been
I've said this since you brought up town
manager administrator at the top
overseeing all the offices so that they
run smoothly having the financial person
in like the J position on the next tier
you know and then exactly and that's
what they tried to do when they had
hired I'm sorry I mean it's a public
name Sherry in the past and they tried
to combine the finance offices you know
but making sure every single office runs
smoothly so I agree with you but we can
only you know I know it's the board of
Select men's call with what the duties
are of each office so go ahead Kim I
think I'm all set I just I'm good I mean
I we'd all love to rearrange but we have
to go with what we work with and and you
know Eric does do a lot and hopefully by
hiring these other people for other
offices some of the stuff will go off of
his plate um yeah but the finance person
was never going to present the budget
but I think it's a great thing if we had
if they had always tked Eric with it and
then if we had someone in the Treasure
office I agree it could have been that
person but I know we could go on and on
about the HR situation and the job
sharing and the different ways that you
know we'd love to rearrange things but
we're just tasked with the financial
piece is what I've always been told so
maybe we should have Cheryl on a meeting
just to briefly give us the overview
it's not our decision because the board
of Selectmen decides that but I agree
that the finance you know
treasure is such an important
part so um we'll get back go ahead okay
this is for
Eric I can see you Louise I'm sorry goad
that's okay my hands up but you can't
see it I can okay um Eric are there any
possibility of any grants out there to
fund like a new position like that
because the because of the new uh
building
well I mean clearly
whoever goes into that role of the
senior center director takes over grant
writing for everything related to senior
transportation and Senior
issues um you know that that much is a
given because right because Kathy pazi
basically said she quit she's quitting
which and I don't blame her she's been
doing it as a volunteer for many years
um but that that hole needs to be filled
um sure there's a lot of Grants out
there for senior stuff no for to fund a
new position in a new
building is there anything out there
that maybe maybe connected to the other
grants that you've used for this
building to fund an actual
position no no not that I
know okay I mean there are grants
for
senior
stuff yeah you know so I mean yes that
whoever took takes over that position
should be grant writing to get money for
programming and doing a lot of the
operations of that building that would
be an expectation of mine that part of
their job you know is to raise money um
and there's a lot of ways to do that
um you know okay but are they going to
raise their own
salary well I mean make it a hundred
bucks a pop to join the community center
you know start charging the wreck
commissions and everybody that uses the
field more if you really want to make it
pay for play and that person is going to
be overseeing that you could generate
their salary but now you're just going
to be charging people more which may or
may not be what you want to do right I
do have one other question um what we
did with Carol Le's salary last year I'm
wondering whether we can do this the
same type of thing where we could maybe
start this director off at 50 or 45 and
have an extra 15,000 in there I just
don't know how you
would measure whether that person would
be getting that extra money or not
I think my opinion because it's such a
new position to the town I I don't think
it would we we did that with Carol
because she came with that I don't know
if anyone took the time to read the
information that I sent I didn't hear
back from anybody I just kind of
clarified what we had done last year in
the 16 point something you know which we
knew she had been here for years and we
worked together on that I'm afraid if we
have a brand new
position it's not really I think we as
the board of Finance should just decide
I because we're allowed to decide
finance things what we want to start it
at I
mean if the person comes in and you know
there's nothing against in another year
if it takes off and it's you know I know
the board of Selectmen like Eric said is
thinking it's going to create all kinds
of money and you know Grant things I
think it takes a person a little bit of
time if they're not a town resident to
come in and learn the community learn
from those commissions learn from a
Cathy pazi learn from everybody that's
been doing things and then um so I don't
think it's inappropriate like when you
figure out a dollar amount it's in you
know I think I had figured out if we
kept it we lowered the salary because
then we're not putting it like Bill and
different people have mentioned myself
you know at the level of the treasure
the town clerk that we feel is a little
more important to the town and keeping
things going right now it can't grow
into if it's a big Boon does a great job
in a big money make the town and we want
to retain someone then you address it
then so I
believe yeah when I was doing some math
at the
50,000 you know it comes out to a a $24
and something it depends how long you're
going to work with you know how many
hours a week I don't want to get into
the weeds with whatever but I I would be
happy with reducing that as like a
starting point um we have make a motion
and vote on that Joan how does that work
right I'm just deciding in my in my head
if I want to do the 45 that Kim said
does anybody feel like just saying
before I make the motion are you guys
more in go ahead Brian I was gonna say
maybe put 45 to the community center
director and then maybe 15,000 more for
the treasure I don't know so that
they're both more I mean it was a little
bit lower but I don't know what I don't
know what the community center need is
so exactly so I feel 45 and adding I'm
okay with that I'm going to make a
motion that we hire a
full-time if you guys are with this
full-time uh what are we calling it
community
center director for a salary of 45,000 I
mean they get all the Ben sorry 45,000
this I'm making that motion I'll second
motion okay so we're open for discussion
does anyone have any opinions or further
talk on this
matter so if we put it up to the town
they can only subtract right so they
can't add that's the only issue I would
say if like really adamant about doing
60 Grand as opposed to 45 I don't know
we might want to leave it high and then
I don't know I definitely don't want to
leave at 60 I mean I don't want to make
the motion for that so I'd be willing to
do you know in case anyone takes the
time to listen to our dialogue and talk
I be will to amend well I'd be willing
to amend my motion to all right let's do
this at us all right I make the motion
that we change the
um the senior center community center
full-time salary person for a salary up
to
50,000 can I can I word it like that
Eric I don't think soending your motion
you can do whatever you want yeah and
then I think just second the board of
Finance I me you can't require fulltime
versus part-time but you can set but you
get to set the number so and that'll
dictate what position is I don't think
you can say up to though Joan all right
put a number in there so
then yep so because of what Brian
brought up that they no
one's yeah I'm on the fence I don't know
you're paid um you know do we want to
amend to 50 I mean
look it's $5,000 um obviously it seems
like there's a majority in the board
that wants to cut from 60 so 50 was
couple people seemed comfortable at that
level uh you know Brian's Point's valid
about the town meeting so you know do
you want to amend to to 50 and we'll
resc that you know and go from there yep
so I'm going to amend my meeting you
know based on everything that everyone's
input good point uh
amending I would like to make a motion
to change the community center director
salary to
$50,000 ises anyone second
it I'll
second knowing that we may have to
address it again depending on what
happens um oh okay any further Direction
any further
discussion I think um go ahead I think
during the meeting where we have
everybody sitting there listening to it
I think it might be advantageous for
Eric to maybe mention what he said
before about all those other concerns
that you have um like the assistant and
all that and to see whether that might
play in with reducing from 60 to 50 to
maybe allow that in the future
right they have a good point too we have
our hearing next week as part of our so
we'll be able to get some Community
input there so if we amend it I'd like
to have our meeting be producted I don't
I'd like the motion to get voted on
tonight and then if we get more input
from the community next week by showing
up at our hearing we might even amend it
a little bit more or we have one more
cut at this before we go to time
meetings so forgetting that so this
isn't the final
so okay so we have the second the
motion's on the floor any more
discussion um if we can wait till next
week should we like maybe wait till
Mark's here or does that matter well I
feel like well you don't want to this is
such an important meeting it's such an
important time I
mean he can make a motion next Eric he
could make a motion next week to change
it back if he feels strongly thank you
Rob I know you know that too
so in my opinion he's not here tonight
he forfeited his thank you for that I'm
not being disrespect I'm just a straight
shooter like I put so much time like you
all do that I just he can talk about it
next week if he feels strongly about it
so can we take a vote right I think
after our hearing we have our we have a
meeting we can we can have the
opportunity to make adjustments so
that's always available so right so we
can't be we shouldn't be afraid to make
a motion and pass it tonight we can
always get another look at it later
exactly agree I'm G to call for a vote
if everyone's ready for that all those
in favor say I hi
hi I see um I don't know if I'm supposed
to speak for the minutes I see Joanne
Bill Louise in favor Kim so all those
opposed sorry Brian I don't know which
way you went anyone is
abstaining by abstaining Rob Brian what
are you doing
sorry um I'm going to also
abstain all right so I believe I have
the motion passing
four um 4 Z and two abstaining is that
how I state that 42
yeah okay so the motion passes we are
reducing I'm going to make my note we're
reducing that salary at this time to
$50,000 and you're not going to reduce
it on this budget here no I am but I'm
gonna do that tomorrow guys I just I
want to kind of make my notes and I will
do my edits
tomorrow I mean somebody just did it
Eric just unless er do
it I think we should do it now and that
way there it's clear that it was done as
voted on so y I just couldn't manipulate
it all guys so I'm sorry I'm not an
expert at meeting problem and Eric do
you want to highlight that yeah
highlight
possibly change the color of the font or
something thank you um all right so um
we talked about the
treasurer I you know I'm just gonna you
want to go back to that part of the
budget and look at it or sure we can we
can Eric do you mind going back up there
for a minute in case anyone wants
to uh entertain any motions at this
point and also Eric do we think we could
invite um Cheryl to the meeting next
week I don't know if she's available but
it would be awesome to hear from her you
can invite her I don't I don't know
whether she'll attend or not but I'll
certainly invite her thank you the only
the only thing I think of with that the
only issue I see with that is you know
she'd have to kind of sit through the
presentation I think uh before we could
even get to her you know what I'll do I
will reach out to her in an email and
then I will will read the response
because we've had dialogue in the past
and she says it so succinctly she tells
us exactly what we need and that's the
only reason why I'm strong on it since
an email statement is fine by me I mean
yep get it in writing and circulate it
and that's fine um perfect I'm sure
she'll she can put it together in a
couple of sentences so yeah I think she
would be available to be at the next one
because she is back from
Florida I think she's actually traveling
today so she should be back in state um
so I think it's a lot more likely that
she would be and I know I think she was
planning on coming back into the office
next week to to review
accounts she had mentioned to me in an
email Eric that she was going to be
doing that y not that you should know so
that's perfect thank you for that um
does anyone want to look at that salary
line there and make any suggestions at
this point uh since I just brought it up
to start with I I I will say that I did
not recall that it had been increased by
twice from 15 to 30,000 so I'm I'm more
comfortable than I was previously um so
I'm okay right now it'd be great to hear
from her or get that statement um
clarifying how many hours the job should
be not her but because I know she was
helping out but if we had a a person
that was doing his job when she left
what would that require to do the job
right and I would love to hear from her
on that so yeah and and maybe that's
next budget years you know problem and
leave it for now yeah so I'm I'm I'm
much more comfortable with the fact that
we did double that salary already so I
appreciate it so when I first started
working for the town we had a 40h hour
or a 34-hour a week treasure and a 30h
hour a week assistant
treasure and that was
overstaffed um in truth um I think
realistically the
assistant um needs to be a full-time
position um I I personally think that's
a you know a 34 to 40 hour a week
position um to stay caught up on
everything um personally I think one
full day a week
is probably pretty close if you had
somebody for the treasure if you had
somebody that really knew what they were
doing um you know and was on the top of
their game
um maximum of two days a week in that
slot that would be my take on it um and
that's kind of along the lines of where
if
we ended up going in with the
neighboring Town that's rough the
breakout we would do they would assume
around 65% of the cost um and get
two-thirds of the labor we would get
basically onethird of their time at a
roughly a third of their a third of the
total but you know a lot sense if we
could swing it we would be going after
an employee making you know 120 to
140,000 a year but covering two towns
that would be my
whether that goes anywhere or not right
don't know okay thank you Eric that's
great thanks Eric that goes in align
with what Cheryl had said in the past
two I remember talking to that Eric you
had to just I think I had jotted down
something and you did the calculations
on the spreadsheet I know that for the
assistant Treasurer like you said I know
that's a very busy office she keeps
everything going and now she has agreed
to work the 33 hours a week I know she's
already in a union on contract there's
no problem there but um what was the
percentage raise that I should know this
because I was on the committee I just
don't have the contract in front of me
what was their their increase this year
I know it varied every year I don't know
off the top of my head I could pull up
that contract and tell you okay but
we're confident that the figures you're
quoting us here are the correct whatever
the and I'll look back too but you feel
like whatever raises were granted in the
unions are represented on the
spreadsheet the yes correct the only one
that's a little bit questionable is meiu
and that
contracts it's a little funky because in
that contract we put in the contractual
raises right for the
2425 year but technically the contract
is up as of June 30
of this year so there's a little bit of
a question about whether that contract
really applies to next year or whether
we got to re renegotiate prior to that
right and usually I know we talked about
it in the Neo negotiations that when
there's not a it's fine I just wanted to
make sure that we represented the exact
raises that are there like I said in the
past like say my own contract was up for
negotiation usually there's a flatline
there because we don't know if you've
done the estimated based on what's been
done in the past it's fine I mean for
the few people it involves meu is that
the assessor and the assistant
assessor tax collector tax collector
okay yep all right um you know so that I
don't hear myself talk the does anyone
have any I'm gonna have a few more but
does anyone have any specific items that
oh centure right there
sorry did everybody have a chance to
look at what happened with the town
clerk so my thought in a nutshell and
then I'll then I'll open it to the floor
we we gave her that big raise last year
I have that which was good it everybody
ended up happy I think it ended up being
a salary of 61,000 total we divided it
into the two wages based on the years of
experience it's just my thought that
since it's her full
salary we probably should Grant her
either we're going to go with what the
Selectmen did on both things because I
feel like her full salary would have
been the 61,000 from the prior year so
are we going to go with a 4% raise on
both items because right now they are
applying to the to the person that's in
that job or do you want to go with the
request of the 5% sorry 4% or
5% does anyone have a
thought or are we just going to leave it
I'm I'm okay with leaving it where it is
but anyone else have an opinion and I'm
sorry if I I can't I got to scroll down
I can't see everybody on my we increased
it last week right to the 5 perc so she
requested the 5 per if it went through
standard the board of Selectmen would
have given everybody that's not in a
union the 4% 4% right but we increased
hers to
5% I feel that we should keep it there
yeah I'm fine with keeping it but if
we're going to keep it as it's her
salary I feel like we really need to
increase both lines even though we
brought the other one down because her
salary was split does anyone or or Bill
you're saying you want to keep it split
and just do how it is oh I'm just fine
with the way it's presented here I'm
fine with the 5% too and I just think if
we're being Kim how do you feel on this
I know you have some HR experience
or I think it's fine the way it is right
now okay all right so let's leave that
if if we Circle that's a small that's a
small item so let's leave it um so does
anyone else have any items that they
want to bring up before I bring up a
more well mine's at the end mine's all
the way down at Capital so why don't you
keep
going all right and there's they're not
big one's on the way let me just
look okay all right so sorry Eric can
you go back up to the administrator line
because I think that's where this
position
is I've gotta thank
you I
am so my rationale for this guys I'm
thinking a couple years ago I'm GNA talk
about this project manager thing at this
point I am going to make a motion in a
few that we don't do that this year I've
been involved in a lot of meetings where
we've brought on either additional
employees or we've brought on you know
we've hired more for Public Works we've
hired the town planner to hopefully take
some of the burden away from Eric with
the
um uh grants and different things and
projects that he has so I know that we
have his admin assistant getting the
$5,000 stip in which I think is great to
prepare p and do what she
does I'm just not in favor and I guess
the reason I'm thinking about this
everyone I guess I should have started
out with is the overall budget of Us
increasing the spending by so
much I'm just not in favor of I know
that there's areas where we're going to
increase that need to and some of the
funds some of the things we talked about
tonight I know that I was voted onto
this board for a reason and I feel like
the budgets are handed off to us
you know with their highest capacity of
what they're asking for that they feel
is reasonable within such a small town
and then it's our job to kind of dig
into the weeds a little bit not on every
single thing but um to me this is a want
and not a need this year I think that we
have a lot of projects on the table that
are moving along um and you know I'm
hoping with you know if if like I said
that my stepping stone is like public
Public Works should run good with Jay as
a highlevel person if we get the
treasurer's office in order and maybe
Eric can take a little bit off of that
again I don't know how to explain myself
I'm just I'm not in favor of this
position this year because we've added a
lot of new positions recently I can
understand where I feel like Eric would
have to spend a lot of this is just me
from going to me he would have to spend
so much time explaining things to people
that hopefully if he can get good help
from his other positions in town maybe
he can be freed up to follow up on the
projects
thoughts um so I'll I'll speak um I'm
totally in favor of it I'm looking at
the line above it and I see you know the
admin assistant was
22,650 last year it's down to 5,000 so I
mean the whole line item is a 1%
increase from 117 929
to19 it's it's a $1,000 increase overall
for that total line item of town
Administration and Eric's gonna get the
person that he needs to help uh really
manage a lot of grant money that he
brought into this town like a lot of
Grants and he can't even get to them
right now because he's overly he's doing
the treasurer's job being here tonight
he's got huge amounts of money that he's
written grants for and it's it's
important that we capitalize on those
grants spend the money and I think it's
$1 15,000 it's it's not even
$115,000 it's really free when you look
at the fact that we went from 22,650
last year to 15,000 this year or
actually if you add up the two lines
20,000 this year so there's there's no
increase really here um it makes total
sense to me to do this so I'm in favor
of the way it's laid
out okay thank
you I agree with that
I agree with that because I thought I
thought that the the admin assistant the
the decrease there and the project
manager I thought that was a tandem
thing I thought that that goes those go
together and uh you know if you look at
them holistically then I think it makes
sense and I think if you if you zero out
the project manager then don't we then
you know and we also cut the assistant
line then aren't we actually reducing
the support um so I don't I don't think
that's a great idea and I I think we
should leave it thank you rob um and my
thought is not in you know I'm looking
at ways we could reduce the overall
budget because I'm just thinking of
presenting you know really if we're
looking realistically at how much
spending we are doing for the town and
and we can disagree and I I bring bring
I love that like that's why we open up
discussion but um I feel like this is a
budget where people are bringing out
that you know Ram is down this is the
time that we should you know pad some
other lines and I I understand that
logic but I'm also thinking of the
people that are on fixed incomes and
looking for us to kind of you know
people that put their support behind me
to kind of look at things where we might
be able to save certain Years and spend
other years so I was bringing that fact
up um you know of of I don't think the
admin assistant had been acting in that
role for the whole prior year anyways I
think she's been you know Eric has taken
on some of those duties so I appreciate
your input on that I understand that
he's brought a lot of town money into
the town and all of that I'm just
looking of ways of some savings I yeah
does anyone else have any thoughts on
it I I agree with you Joanne I think
that for this particular year maybe we
could hold off on this position I do
think it's important I think Eric does
need the help but I think that there are
so many expenses this year that
potentially this one could just possibly
wait I don't like to say that but maybe
hold off on
it so this year okay it took me just
over two years to get an
HVAC
project from when the fire department
requested it to when the contractor came
here um
we have a giant problem with the
school that's going to chew up an awful
lot of time on my part if you're going
to do it and you're going to cut that
understand that and we're going to do
more of what we're doing now which is I
have a bunch of grant money and I'm
slowing the acquisition project for that
Grant in fact I deliberately didn't sign
the paperwork for a
$275,000 grant that we've had on the
books for over two years because I knew
I couldn't even get to that
project so now I'm pushing it and I'm
hoping that I actually get to
construction before we lose the grant
but I don't know that that's the case I
think I can make that um if I didn't we
would lose
$275,000 um you know in that
Grant um you know if we get the one for
the Improvement on Route
316 that's a $2.8 million
Grant
um to be honest if if
if I look at a construction manager as
as a cheaper alternative to paying the
town engineer to oversee stuff because
right now we're on the hook for9 95
bucks an hour whenever the town engineer
is doing it so in my mind that's money
well spent but if it gets cut it gets
cut I'll deal with thank you Eric I'm
just throwing out suggestions I just put
my due diligence in so I hope that any
of the suggestions that I make moving
forward for the board for you for the
towns people no one gets offended I'm
just trying to so I ex I appreciate the
other opinions of the board I thought it
might take more of your time bringing a
person on board kind of bringing them up
to speed and if maybe some of the other
duties that you were doing were taken
off your plate it would give you more
time I mean you're explaining yourself
it's just an idea I have because I have
a feeling you know obviously people are
going to go to town meetings and they're
going to see a bottom line
and you know it's not a huge increase
that we're asking for taxwise or mill
rate wise but I know what's behind the
scenes you know as far as the big you
know Ram is you know Ram is down you
know AES is up the town is up over
600,000 so I'm just looking ways to to
minimize the hurt to the taxpayers of
owning this because having sat in this
board for three years once you commit to
something it's hard to even if you have
rational ideas to ever decommit so
that's all so thank you for that I
appreciate i'mna go back to what Eric
just said there's there's a lot of grant
money that could go to waste if we don't
hand right that's what I'm saying point
taken you all made a great argument I
just brought it to the table idea it's
no offense J Joanne it's not offensive
when you what I'm saying is you have to
look rationally at what he's proposing
here rationally there's no increase it's
a decrease I look like I'm being
irrational Bill you're I brought up a
suggestion I'm trying to talk you're
looking getting angry I'm not feeling
comfortable at this I I love debate but
go ahead I agree Ang but you're not
letting me talk everybody let you talk
but when somebody else is talking that
means you have to stop so other people
can also talk so that's where I'm not
I'm getting angry it's not that I'm
angry about the item okay it's less
money than last year for those when you
look at those two positions and it's
money that we could lose that we've been
granted if we don't do this so it
doesn't make any rational sense not to
do this but that's I'll drop it at that
I was already ready to drop my
suggestion you guys all were compelling
and good so thank you I'm just bringing
things to the table I'm fine with so
let's drop that so I'm GNA open it to
other people that have
ideas for a moment while I
gather I'm feeling this is I'm sorry B
Rob no no l go right ahead right this is
this is the year that we had mentioned
that we could sneak some things in and I
think this thing is really needed this
extra money is really needed so and the
overall is very low as far as the
um uh the impact to the to the um what
do you call
it yeah that so I really feel that the
town the people will probably approve
something like this and we are putting
in things that we need to do because
this is the year that everything else is
kind of down I mean we should definitely
I think you know keep track of this and
see how it goes but my hope is that sort
of position pays for itself in the long
run um that's certainly the the
rationale for it and I like the idea if
it doesn't turn out that way um then uh
you know I for want to be perfectly
happy to revisit the issue uh going
forward but I think it's a I think it's
a good idea for this budget cycle let's
see how it goes see if it allows us to
get more done and more grant money uh
utilized uh and if if the you know if it
works out great if it doesn't if it's if
it's really no change and we're just
spending money on something for little
benefit then we should you know revisit
it next year and talk about it again uh
provided of course it gets approved um
so that's my take on it too um that's it
I think we've we've set our piece no
that's perfect I think I'm ready to move
on from this item like it's 15,000 it's
not it's not very much and again my
overall job of being on the board is
just you know the people that supported
me being on the board is trying to keep
expenses down I agree that this is one
if it's going to do all those things um
then then I'm I'm for it you know it's
it's okay um just trying to find ways to
save or things like that so I'm ready to
move on unless someone else has a
comment on this
item great we're going to move on from
this item okay thank you
um I'm gonna keep going and and I
definitely applaud Eric for all his
efforts you know and for things that are
going in with the town and the things
that he has to manage on a daily basis
so that's
awesome um let me see if I have any
other quick ones on the way down to
those funds and things of that nature
yes so just to put it in perspective for
one Bridge Project which is Bunker Hill
bridge if you look at what out of a
total budget of
$4.2
million
$440,000 of that is project
management so 10% of the cost of that
project is the professional management
for that um which is separate from the
cost for the construction inspections um
or the
design so I guess what I'm saying is
that that's that's a very expensive
typically on building projects Clerk of
the works um hiring a clerk of the works
tends to run around 5% of the project
costs so for the community center we
would have assumed if we hadn't done
that inhouse we would have expected that
to be at at least $50,000 for us to hire
somebody to do what Adrian started doing
and I ended up doing for that building
which is the daily monitoring of the job
site but that's easy but only because
it's next
door right and again we have a lot of
things like you said and I'm very aware
that we have a lot of things going on at
the same time and we have the grants
that you've gotten with the Town garage
thing and then you know the community
Community Center is the most visible you
know so I don't know the inner workings
of who in each town you know manages
everything or public works and Things So
yeah thank you for for pointing that out
so um I'm getting the overall feel it
doesn't mean I'm going to stop but I
feel like maybe the board and I don't
mind saying this publicly because I do
is feeling like they want to they're
happy maybe with this overall budget I
mean I'm still going to bring up my
couple of items
but and then kind of let the town see
where it goes my only thought with what
you said Louise is I feel like I see the
hidden dollars and why it works that way
so I'm afraid for the town moving
forward when Ram you know we were we
married to some of this spending if
we're going to fund it at the same level
and you know positions don't usually get
cut even if all your projects are done
and the positions you know are going to
stay there that's a hard thing to do so
I get that so you know the I know where
the hidden money is it's the the the
numbers work out the way they are
because you know Ram is down
basically um the other thing is let me
look at my front page that I written
down and there's nothing wrong with that
if if the town supports that but I feel
like our town is made up of a lot of
senior citizens that are on fixed
incomes too so I'm just speaking for
them um you know AES is up a little Ram
is down significantly the town is up $
67,69 according to Eric's document and
we're we're putting in some fund balance
too of
150 so thank you Eric so in trying to
it's not that this is a nice budget like
people are going to and and maybe people
that are wealthy are just doing fine
aren't going to mind that because it
does look good but the people that are
trusting us to to look at it and maybe
find some savings somewhere eventually
it's going to hit them when all of this
when Ram goes back up too basically so
it's all a matter of thought and a lot
of you have voiced your opinions that
you think this is the great year to do
that and I I can I hear you so if I if I
could piggyback on that a little bit you
know I mean your point is strongest with
operating budget stuff like you know any
salaries that we're adding because
salaries of course propagate out into
benefits and things like that so you
know the community center director you
know you've got a you've got a strong
point there that we're adding that in
and then you know we're locked we maybe
we're not locked into it but it kind of
becomes a course of performance and the
next thing you know you're five years
later and it it's still there um you
know I when I thought of this year of
having an opportunity this year maybe
the next couple because of ram um to to
put some money into some things I was
looking at Capital side uh so uh you you
may not be pleased with this but you
know my my thought was to look at the
capital and actually Ponder whether we
should put more into some of our capital
budget um you know specifically I had
raised the bridg and culbert fund uh
last time I I don't if if nobody else is
coming with me on this I won't I won't
bother with it uh I just the bridg and
Culvert thing is worrying
me you know on a going forward basis
it's something that we've been talking
about now for a little while uh a year
or two now with the costs increasing
pretty dramatically and you know we are
increasing so there's there's no
question we're increasing at $75,000
this year over our usual
100,000 so we're already taking that
into account I was just wondering if it
made sense to bump it a little more um
that's and the thing with the capital
funds is unlike a salari position where
benefits acrew and everything like that
it doesn't go on and on every year you
know you can you can adjust it much more
easily um you you're not locking
yourself in necessarily you're really
just saving money um which is that was
that was my thought that was the only
one I was going to raise if anybody
coming with me on that thinks maybe we
could put a little more in there great
if everybody thinks the one 175 is fine
then you know I'll back off that's fine
it's not I don't think it's a huge deal
one way or the other Rob I'm glad you
got to these because I know we want to
discuss the funds as well and and like I
said I I appreciate everyone's
opinion um you know all of us should
talk to what we believe in um it's not
personal at all so it's just what we're
trying to do so and we like to you know
circling back to these funds I'm only
going to shut the camera off because I
got to get closer to read the little
script there um I am fine with your
logic of keeping this you make a good
argument I I'll let other people speak
if they want to add more make motions
I'm fine with that my thought on the
funds was going to to be who knows how
it would be received I think I spoke to
it last week in a preliminary kind of
setting the tone for tonight um and I'll
just I'm going to stay true to myself
you know regardless of whatever whatever
is voted in at the end of the night so I
had thought and however we I also feel
like on this board too we do get kind of
it's kind of frowned upon when we want
to reduce things too so that's why I
hesitate I'm glad and I support the even
if we wanted to take maybe next year we
wanted to take a little bit away from a
different fund it's almost like we're so
we can talk to that and then my idea
with this is if we were going to
increase it that I would probably put a
motion out there to um reduce the road
funds a little bit since we had already
gotten ahead of the game with
180,000 um at the end of the night if
the board really wants to just rubber
stamp this and send it and I'm not
opposed to it this is not me being mad
this is listening to my fellow board
members and hearing what you're all
saying um that maybe you do want to
rubber stamp this and put it out to the
town to decide I'm coming up with some
suggestions so that's all I don't think
anybody wants to rubber stamp this joint
I think it's fine that you have other
items that you want to go through and we
should definitely go through those I
don't think anybody here said anything
about rubber stamping anything so I
sorry that I use that term but all right
so I I think we should listen to all
your other um okay thoughts that you
wanted to go through but right now we're
talking about Rob's suggestion on the
capital and I just wanted to throw in a
little support and I don't know I don't
have a number in my head but I do feel
similar to Rob and in two ways that
these costs are escalating and to me
it's always better to be a little bit
ahead of the game than trying to catch
up down the road so that's my thought
there and secondly I'm thinking about um
the oil tank situation and the uh the
pipes at the high school at the I'm
sorry a s the middle the grammar
school these are Big Ticket items these
aren't little things so we can try and
cut the budget cut the budget cut the
budget but someday we're have to come to
pay the piper be a huge increase to
cover the cost of these sewer pipes that
are about to let go at the grammar
school of an oil tank that could start
leaking any day of coverts that costs
are going up so it's it's nice to trim
budgets when you can but I don't think
it's a good time to trim budgets is my
opinion is a time to take advantage of
where we
are um with the ram situation and uh I I
just don't think it's a good time to be
trying to cut but to cut too much when
there are things coming down the pike
that are going to really Spike these
budgets up and it's going to be a hot a
lot harder for the town to swallow in
the future so I just am cautionary about
cutting
go ahead Rob can I just chime in on the
tank thing Eric and I had an exchange
about the tank thing a little bit more
and I'm a lot less concerned bill um he
found some of the paperwork uh they were
they were put in very recently uh I
think there was some confusion I last
time we were talking it sounded like
they were 20 years old or something
they're not they're they're like three
years old and double wall tanks they're
double wall tank us yeah they're double
wall tanks they got to be fiberglass um
I'm not at all really I'm not freaked
out at all about that anymore I I was
very concerned when I thought the age
was much more and it was possible they
could have been still
tanks my fears there are allayed so just
on the tank issue at least um overall
mindset I'm with you um the one thing
you know Joan raised the road funds and
she has a point here where we backfilled
that um because of an
overage um last budget cycle this this
year uh where there was a overe
expenditure
um so if there is a place to cut in
capital uh that's sort of the fair one
to look at in my mind uh so there's
there's a point to be made that we sort
of did extra work um I think you know my
general feeling is like we still have
plenty more but I can understand that
you know we did kind of just sort of
plug a hole and we did it with fund
money that we could have put somewhere
else and so then the question is just
how are we prioritizing uh how are we on
the roads versus how worried are we
about bridging Culverts for instance you
know we could reduce one and increase
the other you know those are all valid
possibilities uh and do you has there
been any further update as far as the
school with the um so thank you rob for
that because I I would have be nice if
someone told me that i'
losing I've been losing sleep about that
oil tank so I'm glad to hear that I
guess um another the other thing that's
big in my mind was the um the situation
with the bathrooms and the and the
sewage pipe at the grammar school I I
mean is that something that we're going
to have to tackle this year next year I
mean anybody Eric anybody I'm just
concerned about that not that's a big
Bill Eric do we have an up I know we
have a 100,000 in the um in the fund
that we're putting together for AES and
I agree with both points that bill and
Rob made and I guess if we're if we were
afraid of those oil
tanks you know would this have been the
year to shift some money out of funds to
take care of that if those are in an
emergency situation maybe shifting funds
into I don't know if that's the building
maintenance fund or whatever we I'm I'm
All About tackling the emergencies
before they become huge problems so Eric
like like Bill asked for do you have an
update on
that uh so two things Rob I think the
tanks really are 20 years old oh what
you
saw that was when we I don't think so
2021 was when I suggested that we need
to be uring the tanks so that was I
apologize everyone okay I misunderstood
that for um so I I don't know I know and
I'm pretty sure that they are about 20
years old because it was about then that
the Department of Health made them move
the well because they put the inground
tanks in right by the existing well to
the element
school um which the health department
had some real issues with and made them
relocate the well for the school um a
couple hundred feet away from the tank
um to provide an added margin of safety
um
so but I mean I know the fact that Chubs
is actually willing to ensure the tank
is a pretty good statement um because
they're they're pretty conservative
about
and I know it took an awful lot of
paperwork to get into that program and I
pretty sure they're requiring an annual
inspection of that um you know of that
tank but I I don't have full I don't
claim to have full details but I am
pretty sure they're about 20 years old
okay so that's where I was confused I
think I you showed me a form and I
thought I said 2021 and that was for the
insurance purposes okay my my fault uh
so sorry Bill
now revers but um what we had was a form
was interesting the form said they were
double wall tanks but under tank
composition nothing was
checked I don't know just from my
experience if it's double walled it's
almost certainly fiberglass but I I
don't know if that's 100% because the
form didn't say if they're fiberglass
tanks they should last a whole lot
differently than a steel tank so I I
would my concerns were allayed but and
we do have them insured so that's good
too um I'm not I'm not I don't think
that's flashing red although and then
the only question is you know what is
the lifespan of of a double wall fber
glass tank I don't really know all the
ones I've seen in my career are steel
ones that rust it so you know that's why
they come to me uh that's where an
environmental claim comes from so you
know I that one I don't think is
flashing red but maybe Bears a little
further investigation just to make
absolutely certain we understand what
the lifespan of those things are um and
what you know what the plan is for them
going forward but I don't think we have
a we have an imminent issue
there and the last thing was the the
pipes at the elementary school do we
have anything further on that um Eric
I'm sorry not really I you know I'm
still uh I got a couple names of
MEPS um one of whom I've talked to but I
got the
Feeling H the The Firm that our town
engineer
recommended um they're an MEP firm but
they're much more heavily weighted
towards the electrical end of things and
the hbac than the plumbing so I think
I'm back looking for a different me to
support the town um we did an extensive
search of Records here um we do not have
anything um I have asked Steve the
custodian at AES to see whether they
have the original blueprints from the
40s um because the town does not and
that's obviously going to be a concern
because if we can't even hand over a set
of schematics to the engineer that's
going to drive our costs up because he's
going to have to figure it out and
diagram the whole thing out so that's
where we're at um and frankly the school
has not even voted yet but that is their
priority project
soag the upcoming B Ved
meeting they proa I mean I assume it
probably will be there but yeah we they
haven't done it yet and they have about
200,000 left if memory serves so you
could look at that and say we have a
cumulative no I thought they had
200k no it's aund something now right
Eric it's dropped just over 100k oh just
over 100 maybe it was okay I was
thinking of the combined total I
apologize so if we put in 100 they have
100 then you got about 200 that's right
we talked about this at CIP and my
memory was a little fuzzy it's been a
few so we do have 200 if this budget
goes through because we're going to add
100 to the 100 they have and that would
cover if we need to do
something hopefully Eric did they do a
sorry Rob no that's it that's all I did
they do a small repair to get those
bathrooms open or are they still closed
down they're closed oh no they're fully
clo closed I mean they did a$ 30,000
plus dollar insurance claim to clean up
and to get all the sewage out of
there um so that's what's driving up our
insurance cost this year that was the
other thing okay yeah I try right the
they sort of plugged it really but you
can't use the bathrooms okay all right
no yeah there's three sets of bathrooms
there's a boys and a a girls bathrooms
and then the teacher bathrooms and that
original Wing are are off limits until
until the plumbing system is redone yeah
that is a big deal like you said the
priorities of how the money spent um
thank you for that Eric I guess so you
know continuing on in this I would be in
favor and I'm going to put a motion out
there I don't know how it affects
anything but only because I feel like
we're ahead of the game with the with
the road work that we did because we
transferred the money in I'll put it out
there and see what you all think so I
would like to um reduce the road
Improvement fund there to a tune of
60,000 um at this time and that'll kind
of help offset a little bit of what
we're feeling in adding to the bridge
and cover and make a motion to do that
wait so so so gets it to 350 Joan for
this so that would yeah I'm just trying
to think of yeah so that would to
clarify oh so you want to reduce it by
60 I thought you said R from 410 to 350
410 to 350 only based on the rationale
in case this meeting is taped because I
feel like we've
already topl loaded or front loaded some
work that got done and then we paid for
it that you know so that's my
rationale um does anyone second that
motion I'm hearing none so does that
mean my motion fails is that the
procedure
right okay I just don't know procedure
doesn't proceed it doesn't proceed
somebody could second it for purposes of
discussion so you can at least have a
debate if you wanted to they know that
they could I think so I put it out there
um so going once going
twice okay motion um didn't make it
so does anyone have any other further
discussion or talking points on any of
those um
funds so I mean the other one you know I
kind of brought up was the brid Culver
Eric we talked about this a little last
meeting I didn't make a motion then I'm
still not certain what I want to do here
what my real inclination is you know we
are increasing it by 75,000 I I like
that I think that's a good thing I'm
just wondering if you know bumping it a
little more might even make sense I
guess we you know looking at the the
projects coming down the road is $25,000
you know one way or the other going to
really make a difference you know maybe
maybe we just leave it I don't know do
you have thoughts as to whether you know
if we put in 200 instead of what 75 if
that's going to move the needle down the
road at all
or well so Le let's take an extreme
case you know the the town has I think
CTS that are relatively
large Okay so so let's say you wanted to
replace all of them and you didn't have
state assistance as your kind of total
outlier case you're looking at two and a
half
million um between two and a half
million and four million say because a
couple of them like that Stone Arch
Culver on Meritt Valley that would be a
stupidly expensive one to replace
currently um some other ones are would
be cheaper so you can kind of work
backwards and say what is the expected
lifespan of a bridge or a Culver and
when were most of these put in so the VA
vast majority of the ones we have are
what are called squash metal
pipes um so you basically take a round
pipe and you squash it so the bottom is
flatter um so you get more surface area
down low um those tend to have around a
30 to 50y year
lifespan um and a lot of them are
approaching that so we know going
forward that that certainly over the
next 20 years we're going to replace a
bunch of them um currently there are
three there are two that are rated four
and failing one of them being the one
lak road uh by basola that is the one
that's in the state local bridge program
now um one of the ones that is rated for
failing also is on bare swamp um that
one's problematic because that one
there's no exit from there so if that
one fails you know you're looking at an
emergency repair because you got you
have people
stranded um you know there's also one on
Town's end um that is definitely in the
the poor slash failing in fact uh Linda
fish who was on just mentioned to me the
other day that we're getting a sinkhole
in the road again um so we'll be up
patching that and dealing that so I
think over the next 10 years we're going
to have a bunch of these that we're
going to have to deal with but the
reality is we're not going to pay for
all of the cost of these know we're
going to try to get them one by one in
the state local bridge program which at
least gives us 50% of the cost of
repairing it um you know and that's
really the best funding mechanism for
the mediumsized
bridges so if we do
175,000 the next two years we have fully
funded Lake Road at Bola and that's good
because that means we can start we can
do next summer as a construction season
split the cost over two fiscal years
we're done the bridge after that um you
know we will be starting to put money
away from that in the
2526 no
2627 budget somewhere around
2728 we're going to be able to free up
all the money that is currently in the
Bunker Hill Bridge fund because we will
have completed bunker Hill and we will
have
completed
uh um Long Hill those are both fully
funded but we have to pay for the actual
work and then get reimbursed by the
state and federal government so the
bottom line is we should have that money
available in about four years between
four and five years so we will have a
big basically think five years from now
we can do another $2 million Culvert and
pay for it um so we'll get two of the
big ones done after that it's kind of a
crapshoot
okay bottom line 175 this year and if we
could manage it again next year you're
comfortable with that and then you know
I'll then I'll leave it I won't I won't
make a motion at all um I'm
content thank you Eric and Rob does
anyone else want to comment on the funds
at
all
no Al righty
um let me just look through my notes and
and I just so I have one one thing to
say and you're not gonna change it and I
get that and I'm not even asking you to
but typically towns run contingency
funds of somewhere between one and
two% of the total budget um and over on
a 13 Mill million do budget is running a
$50,000 contingency fund um which is an
awful lot less than that if you would
talk to the auditor we should be putting
that number should be somewhere between
150 and about
$250,000 for a town our size with our
budget what's the balance on that now
Eric did I don't have my balance sheet
in front of me uh I mean currently in
this budget we've only spent a couple
thousand out of contingency contingency
is not a capital fund okay so we don't
do it like that's operating budget yeah
right okay so yeah we've gotten lucky
basically so far we've gotten away with
it like I I know exactly what you're
saying Eric uh but somehow we've managed
right and and the reality is because we
have a lot of money tied up in capital
funds I can shift money to cover most
things so I think we can continue to get
away with it but just I mean I would
tell you as a board of finance that that
number has always been a very tight
contingency number for a town to
maintain um being able to predict a
budget to within less than half a
percent um is not
a um not necessarily
a a easy thing hey we're just that good
Eric so does that money ACR Eric it does
not no no no that's
yeah
no why can't contingency fund is it's
like 50k SL fund each year and sometimes
we use it sometimes we don't sometimes
we roll it back over right Eric you
could potentially make it a capital fund
and I I recommended that a couple of
times to the board of Finance in the
past but I didn't really have any takers
on that what was the reason for saying
no to educate I don't remember yeah I
honestly don't remember Joanne thank you
I'm fine with it the way it is at this
point and like you said luckily we are
funding these other funds so if there
ever was an emergency like we've spoke
of at different meetings you could we
hope it never happens to take especially
certain ones but there is money to take
well and remember we do always have a
capital reserve of 10% of our total
budget okay so it's not like we're we're
hopeless it's just that um when you
start dipping into that you know that
takes permission basically from that
takes Town meetings and stuff like that
so and that's where we're earning our
interest I'm just trying to understand F
further than Eric so that's $50,000
contingency what what qualifies I know
what a contingency is but right if you
don't spend it it's it goes back to the
taxpayer right because you didn't spend
it this year so in in my mind why does
it hurt to have a bigger contingency
fund when it's not going to be spent
unless there's an actual something that
qualifies for you know emergency
contingency whatever and I don't know
what parameters or what defines
contingency as far as what qualifies
under that budget line item but if
you're not spending that each year then
I don't understand
the the hurt with having a larger
contingency fund Andor makinging it a
capital fund that it CRS but I guess
that's another yeah I mean we should
maybe revisit the capital fund idea Bill
and maybe we should put that on a future
agenda like once we get through this
budget you know talk about it for next
year maybe we should trans make it into
a um a proper fund you know I know in in
in the past though you know we for
instance when we had that issue last
time with the the road work where we had
the overe expenditure right we could not
address that through contingency because
we just there wasn't nearly enough money
in there right so we ended up plugging
the hole by by moving fund money
around so maybe ite if it acree uh over
a three-year period or or four year
period and then we say we no longer fund
it we only re uh plenty right kind
like easy PR right you keep $200,000 I'm
just making numbers or whatever Eric
said 200 or 400 whatever the number is
and once we get there okay we no longer
fund that but if we spent $30,000 then
the next year you put $30,000 in there
and you just replenish it to that level
that Eric said is the right amount to
have in a contingency fund so each year
we'd only be looking at you know
replenishing money that you spent
otherwise you don't spend it you don't
yeah year we barely touch it we do
nothing with it yeah that makes a lot of
sense maybe we should Revis it that I
think that's a good year for the future
and I like it for a year where we're not
always already increasing spending by a
lot for the town because like Eric said
we have gotten by with what we do and
then he we also have those other
emergency things that we have as well
that would be my take on it I wouldn't
want to fund it anymore you know we can
we can certainly bring it up um Mark
will be at the meeting next week and
maybe have an is a a history too like
Rob did um seems like it's getting byy
fine because what we find out too is
don't forget and I've been at Board of
selectman meetings where different
people want to buy things in this year
of a budget that's already been passed
and then what they say is well how much
do we have in contingency can we swing
yeah so I want to having witnessed that
you know we're going to get a lot of
that you know hopefully there is
criteria like Bill brought up that it's
only an emergencies and everybody wants
to have that contingency but it sounds
like he said we already do have some
kind of other fund I mean I'm learning
as I go too I like to SN it all in too
so there is ways to get the money if
there is an
emergency that comes up and it's
needed um moving on if if everyone's
good with the way the funds are looking
I'm ready to move on um and I just want
to State for the record that I don't
want you to all you know I feel like
choice of words is very important and
maybe I threw out a word that offended
because Bill cheed on it I didn't mean
you're all just rubber stamping it that
that's a poor choice I should have just
said if we're I because I know you all
put a lot of thought integrity and give
backup that was just a quick word to say
meaning I don't know if I should keep
spinning my wheels if everyone's in
support of this you know what I mean
when you're the one person that's trying
to cut or a couple of people have ideas
you just mean you understand that the
majority already has decided that
they're happy with this budget so I just
want to say that for the record that I
know that none of you are just rubber
stamping it we're all not here we're all
here doing our due diligence so thank
you for that um so for
myself I just have a question for Eric
it's not really another cut but it just
kind of rolls into the I had brought up
can you go up to the senior Line Eric
please if we're done with the
funds my eyes are weary let's
see
um means just for clarification I think
senior citizens I think what I'm going
to ask you about is so senior citizens
so okay thank so which part regular
senior citizens if you just go to the
senior bunch of lines I'll be able to
pick it out y it's right there thank you
very much I'm going to look up close so
we will not see me for a minute
here control scroll control scroll you
can zoom in okay thank you um so just
you know for everybody's information
because you know had brought this up
before and these are all small items but
this was the line that I was talking
about when I was talking about the stien
Eric like just this is not asking to to
do anything with it but when we had said
we're bringing on another person to do
some work for the community center I
know that there's someone at the Town
Hall that gets this stien as the
resident services coordinator I don't
think we need to make up people's names
because I don't like to you know this is
salary for people or stuff so when you
do this stip in every year
because well first off some of these
items that the coordinator does you had
brought up tell me those two compelling
items what that you said that this
person takes care of in the town is did
you talk about eviction did you talk
about I apologize I don't remember
the here and I'll I'll scroll down so
that person covers everything pretty
much under the social services
umbrella um and then can you stay there
for a minute since thank you you know my
ey so I'll be right there and since just
since
clarification right okay soci sh
Services mileage food and obviously food
and clothing Social Services if they
need Services clearly you
know understanding that that's important
to have a person or a phone number that
they can call when they need that okay
thank you and then I found it up under
the back up to the senior thank you so
this is where it gets a little stupid
and it gets a little stupid from
a a
perspective of our town ordinances which
is something we should change and that
is we are required by law to have a uh
Municipal agent for The
Elder um that is one of the POS one of
the job titles rolled into that
stien um however our ordinance when it
passed I suspect people in the town were
pissed that the state made it a mandate
for the towns to have this position so
they specified that that position would
not be a salaried position well I'm
sorry but if you want to hire somebody
to be a municipal agent you know for the
elderly
you know there's some expectation that
you're not necessarily going to hire a
volunteer so that person does a whole
series of things they act as the
municipal agent they deal with the
renters
rebate um and part of the reason why it
works in the office in and just to give
you a little history can I interrupt
just and I'm gonna listen I promise I
you know and we don't want to drag I
appreciate everything you're going to
say and I don't want you to it is
informational and um I'm not in
criticism of it at all uh we we could
have the shortened version of it just to
understand because I understand it's
important to have the stien but I also
thought my angle was I thought some of
the duties were going to go to um you
know the coordinator since we're going
to have that person or the director
thank you Eric all right I'll shush
continue uh so no what what that person
is doing now does not really
overlap with necessarily the job of the
person that's going to run the community
center and Senior Center um that's nor
do I think it really should um and you
made a compelling reason why you know I
definitely listen to you you know
I thought that hopefully so when I broke
down the salary of this particular stien
and I'm not trying to be critical I'm
just trying to
understand it's a pretty big stien for a
person that works with stiens a lot um
now do the and by theory in HR law like
a person that's doing a job and then
they get this additional job and I don't
mind if you don't do it this way they're
supposed to do it on different hours I
understand that you can't get a body to
come into the town hall a whole another
full-time person for our small 3,000
residents is this a busy position does
this does this social services manager
get a lot of activity and a lot of need
in our
small it depends I mean the it's
seasonal um there are times when there's
a bunch of work for that office and
times when there's virtually nothing for
that um thank you no that answers it so
I'm not against having it I only thought
if some of the duties like senior
transportation and things were going to
be handled I was under the impression
that one person did that with getting
that stien so if we were giving some of
the duties away would it be reasonable
and again I don't like to work with
livelihood it's just knowledge and we're
adding positions and trying to get
different positions here and there would
it be logical to give some of the duties
to the other person and then retain that
person give them a stien but this is
kind of a high stien as stiens
go I don't I don't think you're going to
agree with me so be I mean say what you
think you probably wouldn't want to
um no I mean I think right now if if I
have $50,000 to work with for a salary
for a senior center community center
director I'm probably not going to hire
a full-time person anyway so I I think
we're going to be cutting back from that
to begin with um you know again I think
we would probably end up going trying to
find a retiree that used to do it that
wants to do it part-time um and go that
um so no I don't think you can put all
the social services stuff on top of that
no no
okay thank you right and not you know
those
couple again only from being not trying
to this is just my thoughts I was having
tonight this was my one night to present
my things with things that we're
bringing forward um definitely not give
it away I just didn't know if it was a
big need in our town I definitely want
to have the social services coordinator
maybe at a $3,000 stien then we put some
of the other money in the in the salary
for the other one because they're taking
over senior transportation and you know
the senior lunch and all of that kind of
thing and so you you would think you'd
want to go and that's not for me to
decide at all it's I guess for the
selectman to decide and
yourself I would have thought you could
still hire a full-time because full-time
at the Town Hall here is a lot less than
full-time out there so full-time could
you know be whatever you wanted it could
be 34 hours 35 hours I would think you
could do that
so you're still you don't think $50,000
is enough in our town so here's here's
what I think you're asking somebody to
walk
in and so right now we have one Town
Administrator and one midlevel manager
the midlevel manager being Jay Tuttle
who's the Public Works supervisor right
okay there are no other middle
management
adding a
director would have added a second
middle middle level manager and you
would have had one person that's now in
charge of basically all things
Recreation all things field all things
senior and other than social services
and all things Community director
related um at the point where you drop
the salary and you you're you're under
the point where you can hire an actual
director you know frankly you're just
not going to shift all those
responsibilities to them and you're
you're hiring a worker B not you know
not a
director um and that's okay if that's
what we can afford that's okay we'll
make it work um I would rather go then
for a part-time person that actually has
the knowledge and has done it because I
don't know how to run a senior center
I'm going to be honest with you I don't
know how to run a community center
that's not a job I can do and that's not
a job we've ever done before um I know
we're
doing not having a recreation director
has hurt us badly certainly
um
but yeah so that's my take on it I
appreciate so what is your thought you
think you would give a part-time person
the 50,000
and we would have given the full-time
person
60,000 that might upset more people in I
you know I don't know I I mean I I think
it's pretty clear looking at the
director
salaries that if you're G to go $50,000
you're not going to be expecting to get
somebody with experience so you're
either going to with somebody new and
you're going to hope that eventually
they can understand how to write grants
manages Center manage people manage
programs or you scale back the job
expectations but make it part-time and I
would probably in truth if we're scaling
it back what I'm going to go for is I'm
going to go for somebody I'm gonna find
myself a retired Senior Center Director
and I'm going to get that up and running
well and then we're just going to fluff
the rest of the stuff and get by however
we can that's I mean that's what I said
to you before I would do if if if that's
what happened never know until you
put go
ahead I feel like
um I'd rather go I I understand I don't
think 50,000 for a town like ours is
something to sneeze at you never know
who is going to be there it's a small
town you work in the community it's very
small I don't know how big of wreck
programs and you know things I know the
Selectmen have big ideas and would love
to make a lot of money from the wreck in
the fields but I just think it should be
managed you know fairly and rented out
and organized I don't you know until you
try you don't know to go into it
thinking you can't you can't you don't
know um that's just my take on things
but I I understand where you're coming
from but I feel like the grant writing
point and trying to make money right
away shouldn't be the focus I feel like
the people that waited for the the
building to be built so that they could
have a community/ senior center would be
nice for them to use and just organizing
it so that there's programs for a senior
and whatever we want to do rather than
looking at them to make money for the
town too um yeah just my thought so
thank you for giving us the overview I
just thought that with working with
stiens it just seemed high for our small
town um again I'm not opposed to it when
you're like like like Bill had said
before and made the good point you know
with the admin assistant and the project
manager yeah we're combining that so if
we were going to hire someone that's
responsible and if it's not too busy of
a Time some of those duties could have
went then reduce a little bit of a stien
because we're giving these stiens raises
every year and again I I analyze these
things I'm sure people aren't going to
be as opposed to it as I am anybody have
a thought on on what Eric has just said
with now we might be getting a part-time
person I
think oh I'm sorry go
ahead all right for the 50,000 I mean
I'm yeah I'm not saying I'm gonna pay
him 50,000 but I know at 50,000 I'm not
competitive for a senior center director
that's what I'm saying okay now yeah
that's so the question becomes where do
we go from there um and you know maybe
we end up with two part-time people I
don't know I mean you know that's a
possibility okay um well we had voted to
have the salary that was a big item for
us tonight so I assume that yeah I
didn't know what your thought was thank
you for clarifying right I I just want
to say that the grant writing is very
important for that person to do because
you need to get the thing running and
also to have M to maintain it too so
that money will come in handy when uh
other programs are added on so I just
don't know what responsibilities you
would pull away from that person
reducing it down to a part-time person I
would make it just focused on Senior
Center and I would ignore the recck
commission and the community center
portion is what I would do what about
the grants the grant writing we just
probably wouldn't do it I mean I I think
you just
Eric why do we have to change the whole
focus on 10,000 I
don't I I
get you know it and again that's not I
understand that's more of a selectman
thing but I I know that you know I I
know your thoughts and we've met on
different things before so I know how
you feel with salary and you I always
tell you you're an employee based
manager you're hired as the manager but
you're always presenting the EMP side so
you're going to do your job based on how
you you know we made our decision
tonight I thank you for letting us know
I I still had envisioned maybe a part a
full-time person but it's not my
decision to make
so does anyone else have that just comes
down to whether we actually can get an
applicant a qualified applicant at that
price level uh Eric doesn't think so but
I guess we'll find out right that's how
I just look at things see I don't like
to go into things so negative all the
time but I I understand there's the
realism too so we'll just have to see
does this have to go back to the board
of Selectmen because we're reducing it
from a full-time to a part-time because
they approved we didn't do that we just
salary line you don't get aay in whether
it's a full-time or part-time position
as the board of Finance you set the line
item perod um everything else is mine in
the board of selection responsibility to
spend that money
in the within the budget y
okay all right well at this point I've
exhausted all the ideas that I was going
to bring forth tonight did anybody else
want to talk about any any line items or
do they feel good at this point with
what we have in front of
us I'm good I'm ready to adjourn I'm
good thank you
Kim thank you
all right and I Brian I can't see him on
my thing but um I'm good thank you okay
awesome all right then let me look at
the
agenda this is I want bring to public
hearing next week correct as it stands
right now right right because I think we
voted that we were gonna have that first
right and our regular meeting we always
have the hearing and then we we have a
meeting after it right y
because I think it falls on our regular
monthly meeting so we'll have the
hearing we have flexibility in our
agenda we can we can add or detract or
whatever yeah Eric are we able to use
our emergency system to kind of alert
the town that we're having a budget
hearing no emergency alert system oh not
sorry the information alert system yes
I'm sorry I'm just using all the wrong
words tonight bad okay no no I mean I
need to go like to my room
but no I'm just kidding um no no
yeah budget meeting huh the regular
alert system we can put out the budget
meeting I I don't think it'll do any
good but you can put it out I know we
don't usually get always try but we
should we should always try yeah AB if
we could say we're having the the budget
hearing you know for the public to
attend and give their input or because
that's the thing that we have before we
do our finalized you know thing that
would be it's the last opportunity for
feedback before we actually take a
budget to the town correct right I will
try to make it guys I may not be able to
uh I'm gonna I have to cover for my kids
that night so they can probably amuse
themselves but I'm a little touching
go they're getting older now so I can
probably do a meeting thanks for letting
us
know all right back so right we think
he'll be here next week so I mean it's
not like we won't have a quorum or
anything if I right no letting us know
all right if there's no further action
do I have a motion to adjourn I move
toj okay Rob makes the motion Phil
second I'll second it thank you
everyone have a great night I just sent
you all the budget
with that you made today thanks yep
great the final the budget document with
the changes you said Joan that will be
what goes to public hearing which is
scheduled next Wednesday I believe right
for public hearing for opinions because
Mark still had yep that sounds good
thank you for we only made one
correction I think right Eric yeah we
just ultimately made that one change
right one change okay all right did we
actually vote on the motion to a Jour I
sorry oh yeah thank you procedure
everybody yep
I all agree thanks Eric just got the
email take care bye